update introduction content and URLs in README (#3999)
asciidoctor/asciidoctor: README.adoc

ifdef::env-site,env-yard[]
:url-rel-file-base: {url-repo}/blob/master/
:url-rel-tree-base: {url-repo}/tree/master/
endif::[]
:url-changelog: {url-rel-file-base}CHANGELOG.adoc
:url-contribute: {url-rel-file-base}CONTRIBUTING.adoc
:url-license: {url-rel-file-base}LICENSE
:url-tests: {url-rel-tree-base}test
:url-discuss: https://discuss.asciidoctor.org
:url-chat: https://asciidoctor.zulipchat.com
:url-rubygem: https://rubygems.org/gems/asciidoctor
:url-what-is-asciidoc: {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/#relationship-to-asciidoc
:url-install-docker: https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor
:url-opal: https://opalrb.com
:url-tilt: https://github.com/rtomayko/tilt
:url-ruby: https://www.ruby-lang.org
//:url-prototype: https://github.com/git/git-scm.com/commits/master/lib/asciidoc.rb This page doesn't exist anymore.
// images:
:image-url-screenshot: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor/master/screenshot.png

{url-project}[Asciidoctor] is a fast, open source, Ruby-based text processor for parsing {url-what-is-asciidoc}[AsciiDoc] into a document model and converting it to output formats such as HTML 5, DocBook 5, manual pages, PDF, EPUB 3, and other formats.

> Asciidoctor also has an ecosystem of extensions, converters, build plugins, and tools to help you author and publish AsciiDoc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asciidoctor also has an ecosystem of extensions, converters, build plugins, and tools to help you author and publish content written in AsciiDoc.
```

> Asciidoctor also has an ecosystem of extensions, converters, build plugins, and tools to help you author and publish content written in {url-what-is-asciidoc}[AsciiDoc].

Reviewer: Let's put an empty line after the first sentence to make the preamble shorter. It displays quite prominently on asciidoctor.org and is running too long as a result.

> You can find the documentation for these projects elsewhere on this site or in the {url-org)[Asciidoctor organization on GitHub].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find the documentation for these projects elsewhere on this site or in the {url-org}[Asciidoctor organization on GitHub].
```

> You can find the documentation for these projects elsewhere on this site or in the {url-org}[Asciidoctor organization on GitHub].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the documentation for these projects at {url-docs}.
```

//image:https://codeclimate.com/github/asciidoctor/asciidoctor/badges/gpa.svg[Code Climate,link=https://codeclimate.com/github/asciidoctor/asciidoctor]
//image:https://inch-ci.org/github/asciidoctor/asciidoctor.svg?branch=master[Docs Coverage,link=https://inch-ci.org/github/asciidoctor/asciidoctor]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/zulip-join_chat-brightgreen.svg[Project Chat (Zulip),link={url-chat}]
endif::[]

== Sponsors

We want to recognize our {url-project}/supporters[sponsors] for their commitment to improving the state of technical documentation by supporting this project.
Thank you sponsors!
Without your generous support, Asciidoctor would not be possible.

You can support this project by becoming a sponsor through https://opencollective.com/asciidoctor[OpenCollective].

== AsciiDoc Processing and Built-in Converters

AsciiDoc is the language. +
Asciidoctor is the processor.

Asciidoctor reads the AsciiDoc source, as shown in the panel on the left in the image below, and converts it to publishable formats, such as HTML 5, as shown rendered in the right panel.

image::{image-url-screenshot}[Preview of AsciiDoc source and corresponding rendered HTML]

> Asciidoctor provides {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/converters/[converters] for three output formats by default: {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/html-backend/[HTML 5], {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/docbook-backend/[DocBook 5], and {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/manpage-backend/[manpage] (manual page).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asciidoctor provides {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/converters/[converters] for three output formats by default: {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/html-backend/[HTML 5], {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/docbook-backend/[DocBook 5], and {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/manpage-backend/[manpage] (manual page).
Additional converters are provided by separate gems.
```

Asciidoctor also provides an out-of-the-box HTML experience complete with a {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/html-backend/default-stylesheet/[default stylesheet] and built-in integrations like Font Awesome (for icons), Highlight.js (for source highlighting), and MathJax (for STEM processing).

== Asciidoctor Ecosystem

> Although Asciidoctor is written in Ruby, it does not mean you have to use Ruby.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although Asciidoctor is written in Ruby, it does not mean you need Ruby to use it.
```

Asciidoctor can be executed on a JVM using {url-docs}/asciidoctorj/latest/[AsciidoctorJ] or in any JavaScript environment (including the browser) using {url-docs}/asciidoctor.js/latest/[Asciidoctor.js].

Installing an Asciidoctor processor is just the beginning of your publishing experience.
Asciidoctor gives you access to a ecosystem of extensions and tools, ranging from add-on converters, to extended syntax, to build plugins, to integrated writing and preview environments:

* {url-docs}/diagram-extension/latest/[Asciidoctor Diagram]
* {url-docs}/maven-tools/latest/[Maven plugin and site module]
* {url-gradle-plugin}[Gradle plugin]
* {url-docs}/asciidoclet/latest/[Asciidoclet]
* {url-docs}/reveal.js-converter/latest/[reveal.js converter]
* {url-docs}/epub3-converter/latest/[EPUB 3 converter]
* https://intellij-asciidoc-plugin.ahus1.de/docs[IntelliJ plugin]
* {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/tooling/#web-browser-add-ons-preview-only[web browser extensions]
* {url-org}[and more]

> Asciidoctor is the successor to AsciiDoc.py (aka AsciiDoc Python).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asciidoctor is the successor to AsciiDoc.py.
```

== Installation

Asciidoctor is packaged and distributed to RubyGems.org as a {url-rubygem}[RubyGem named asciidoctor^].
The asciidoctor gem can be installed on all major operating systems using Ruby packaging tools (gem or bundle).

> Asciidoctor is also distributed as a Docker image and as a package for numerous Linux distributions as well as macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asciidoctor is also distributed as a Docker image, as a package for numerous Linux distributions, and as a package for macOS (via Homebrew).
```

 $ asciidoctor -D output README.adoc

The `asciidoctor` {url-manpage}[man page] provides a complete reference of the command line interface.

Refer to the following resources to learn more about how to use the `asciidoctor` command.

* {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/cli/[Process AsciiDoc using the CLI]
* {url-docs}/asciidoctor/latest/cli/options/[CLI options]

=== Ruby API

Asciidoctor also provides an API.

> The API is intended for integration with other Ruby software, such as Rails, Sinatra and GitHub, and other languages, such as Java (via AsciidoctorJ) and JavaScript (via Asciidoctor.js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API is intended for integration with other Ruby software, such as Rails, GitHub, and GitLab, as well as other languages, such as Java (via AsciidoctorJ) and JavaScript (via Asciidoctor.js).
```

> Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Dan Allen, Sarah White, Ryan Waldron, and the individual contributors to Asciidoctor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copyright (C) 2012-present Dan Allen, Sarah White, Ryan Waldron, and the individual contributors to Asciidoctor.
```

Use of this software is granted under the terms of the MIT License.

See the {url-license}[LICENSE] for the full license text.

== Authors

*Asciidoctor* is led by https://github.com/mojavelinux[Dan Allen] and https://github.com/graphitefriction[Sarah White] and has received contributions from {url-contributors}[many individuals] in Asciidoctor's awesome community.

> The project was initiated in 2012 by https://github.com/erebor[Ryan Waldron] and based on a prototype written by https://github.com/nickh[Nick Hengeveld].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project was initiated in 2012 by https://github.com/erebor[Ryan Waldron] based on a prototype written by https://github.com/nickh[Nick Hengeveld] for the Git website.
```

> *AsciiDoc* was started and maintained by Stuart Rackham from https://github.com/asciidoc/asciidoc/blob/master/CHANGELOG.txt[2002 to 2013] and has received contributions from many individuals in the https://github.com/asciidoc/asciidoc/graphs/contributors[AsciiDoc community].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*AsciiDoc.py* was started and maintained by Stuart Rackham from https://github.com/asciidoc-py/asciidoc-py2/blob/master/CHANGELOG.txt[2002 to 2013] and has received contributions from many individuals in the https://github.com/asciidoc-py/asciidoc-py2/graphs/contributors[AsciiDoc.py community].
```

== Trademarks

> AsciiDoc is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation.

Reviewer: Is dropping the ", Inc" part of the transition of the Eclipse Foundation to Europe? If so, we need to make the same change to the docs UI.

Author: I got clarification from legal. Initially, I made this change because in the Eclipse handbook and many of the other projects' notices, they format/phrase the attribution without the "Inc". But you were correct, it should be "Eclipse Foundation, Inc." Also, AsciiDoc is a registered trademark, so attribution requires the (R) as well as the first/most prominent usage of it, which I added in the first paragraph.  AsciiDoc Language (when writing about as the specification project, which we don't do on this page but I added attribution anyway) gets the (TM).

Author: BTW, you can find the full list of trademarks here: https://www.eclipse.org/legal/trademarks.php#attribution and the usage guidelines for them here: https://www.eclipse.org/legal/logo_guidelines.php
